>> Brian Holt: Now what I want to show you
is some of the debugging tools, right?
So far we've been doing
things like consul.log and
kind of that sort of
stuff to do debugging.
There's actually react dev
tools which are super helpful.
So I'm going to go and
open my consul here and
yeah do I need to install it for this?
So they're available for Firefox,
and they're available for Chrome.
They're not available for Safari or Edge.
If you really want to get
creative you can probably make it
work because Chrome dev tools
can target other browsers.
I'll leave that to your discretion.
But we're gonna go pull up the React
dev tools and you can see here,
the React dev tools here
in the Chrome web store.
>> Brian Holt: I'm gonna go ahead and
add that to Chrome.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
now I'm gonna go back to my app here.
And refresh the page.
I might have to restart my application.
>> Brian Holt: That's one.
There it is.
Okay, sorry.
So now we have a tap here in our browser.
It should appear relatively
similar in Firefox.
It'll just be a tab in there.
We're going to open it.
And now if you check this out you can
actually see the component hierarchy
that our React components look like.
The one thing you might
notice here is that there is
some stuff that you may
not expect to be there.
Like for example you have app right?
That's the top level one,
you know what that one is.
BrowserRouter, we also put that one there.
But BrowserRouter itself is rendering its
own router component, so we see that here.
That's rendering out a div, which is
rendering out the switch which we did.
And then we have this lowercase component,
right?
What is that?
Well, remember in order to render
a search, we have that anonymous component
that renders search, so
let me show you what that looks like.
>> Brian Holt: Notice how this
is a function here, right?
That's the anonymous component,
that's this component right there, right?
Okay so that's the function that
renders search which is this, and
then you can go down, you can see
all the various show cards, right?
You can actually dive into them and
you can see here,
you can see all the props,
you can see the key that it used.
If I go up here to search and
I click on that I can actually see
the state that's interior to that.
What's kind of fun is if it's state
I can actually just change it
directly here in the dev tools.
It's not super interesting 'cause
I can just do it up here as well,
but sometimes you have state that's
a little bit more difficult to get at.
So that's kind of useful.
You can't rewrite props,
right, that makes sense,
because this component
wouldn't have access to that.
>> Brian Holt: You can do
things like highlight update.
So if you're kind of confused
about how things are changing,
notice that my dev tools are flashing
yellow when I delete and update things.
>> Brian Holt: So that's pretty cool.
>> Brian Holt: You can also
even see that it's updating.
You can see it flashing
a little bit as I'm typing.
So that's a neat little tool there.
It works just like the browser
that if I highlight one of these,
it's going to highlight
it on the DOM as well.
And there's something that's
even nice as well, right?
So, let's say I'm really interested in
this Stranger Things title right here.
If I right-click on that and
say inspect element,
it's still gonna bring me here, right?
But if I click React
immediately after that,
it's gonna also deep link me into
there and the React dev tools as well.
So you can also do the right click
inspect element workflow to get what your
looking for.
>> Brian Holt: Cool something
else that I wanted to show you.
So let's say I'm really interested in this
house of cards component right here but
I want to be able to
interact with it directly.
I can click on it so now it's
highlighted in my React dev tools.
I can go into the console and
I can say $r and
that's going to refer to the component
that I have highlighted, right?
So this is a stateless component and
I can open it and
say props and things like that.
>> Brian Holt: So let's do it with
search because that's a little bit more
interesting as well.
So if I go back to React and I click
here on Search, so now I have $r again.
That's gonna be set to Search.
So I can say $r.setstate
>> Brian Holt: And
I wanna set it so search term is,
let's say valley.
>> Brian Holt: And then it's gonna call
set state for me on that component,
and in this particular case that means
it's gonna search for Silicone Valley.
Just as like a side, if you go into
the elements and I click on this,
that's gonna be available as $0,
that's always worked for Chrome dev tools.
So there's kind of
mimicking that behavior.
>> Brian Holt: So this is just a really
really useful way of debugging React.
Let's say I have a huge application and
I need to find all the show cards.
You can actually use the search up
here to search for various components.
That's also useful to have.
>> Brian Holt: That's new.
I've never seen that before.
So you can click this little
target right there, and
then you can kind of find
the thing that you're looking for.
So, I'm looking for this, right,
and that's gonna take me to that.
That's pretty cool.
So definitely don't leave home without it.
[LAUGH]